# Detection-of-Fraudulent-and-Legitimate-credit-card-transactions

The finance and banking is very important sector in our present day generation, where almost every human has to deal with bank either physically or online. The productivity and profitability of both public and private sector has tremendously increased because of banking information system. Nowadays most of E-commerce application system transactions are done through credit card and online net banking. These systems are vulnerable with new attacks and techniques at alarming rate. Fraud detection in banking is one of the vital aspects nowadays as finance is major sector in our life. It becomes challenging due to two major reasons–first, the profiles of normal and fraudulent behaviors change frequently and secondly due to reason that credit card fraud data sets are highly skewed. 
In this project, we investigated and checked the performance of Random Forest Classifier, Adaboost Classifier, CatBoost Classifier, XGBoost Classifier, LightGBM Classifier on highly skewed credit card fraud data. Dataset of credit card transactions is sourced from European cardholders containing 284,786 transactions.
This project intends to illustrate the modelling of a data set using machine learning with Credit Card Fraud Detection. The project includes modelling past credit card transactions with the data of the ones that turned out to be fraud. This model is then used to recognize whether a new transaction is fraudulent or not. Our objective here is to detect 100% of the fraudulent transactions while minimizing the incorrect fraud classifications. Credit Card Fraud Detection is a typical sample of classification.
